# Text Classification User Guide
The purpose of this user guide is to provide some additional insight and examples for how to build and deploy text classification models.

## A Note on Training Data
Training data is fundamental to building a machine learning model. Sometimes that data comes from an external source (twitter, youtube, external APIs), sometimes it is generated by the application you are deploying your model to (text snippets with correct labels). It depends on the use case.

**Key Point:** When you train a model, the nature of the training data directly influences the model's ability to make predictions. For example, if you train a text classification model on user review sentiment, don't expect it to predict the topic of the text.. that would be a whole separate set of training data.

## Common Text Classification Tasks
- **Sentiment Classification**: How positive or negative is a piece of text? Typically trained with text data representing user reviews and respective ratings on a scale 1-5. The primary example model in this repo contains a basic sentiment classifier trained on yelp reviews.
- **Spam Classification**: How likely is it that a piece of text is "spam" or 100% valid? Typically trained with text data paired with the appropriate label (spam or ham). 
- **Topic Identification**: What is the topic or subject matter of a piece of text? Typically trained with text data paired with related categories.
 
## Text Wrangling w/ TuriCreate
Text comes in a host of different formats. Fortunately, the turicreate text classification model handles all preprocessing, [tokenization](https://nlp.stanford.edu/IR-book/html/htmledition/tokenization-1.html), and cleaning of your text data automatically. The `text_in_turicreate.ipynb` gives some tips on adapting your text classifier to a **NEW** set of data, detailing proper formatting and several helper functions.

## New Example: Spam Filtering Model
Ready to try something other than sentiment classification? Great! Try out spam classification in the `spam_classification.ipynb` notebook. Learn how to wrangle an additional external data source, train a different text classification model, and evaluate the model's performance on a holdout test set!